---
title: Expand Art History
layout: homepage
permalink: /
---

The typical impression of art history is that its essence lies in a chronological timeline, highlighting the most “important” objects made by the “greatest” artists. The implicit message here is that art history is about preservation, not participation. While History programs have embraced public history as a subfield with specialized conferences, journals, and PhD programs, art history has not yet adopted a formal framework that might serve as a counterpoint. In her article, “Cultivating an Engaged Art History from Interdisciplinary Roots” (2021), Laura Holzman outlines key recommendations for doing engaged art history that works to embrace activism and advocacy. These practices, while deeply valuable, have focused almost exclusively on exhibitions, curatorial collaboration, or museum-based engagement; therefore, public-facing work within art history has been conflated with museum studies or community arts programming.

In this presentation, I propose an expansion of Holzman’s model, one rooted in disciplinary work but seeking transdisciplinary applications, thereby positioning art history as a socially responsive discipline that can illuminate intersections and parallels between fields. Using an open-ended deep map approach and DigitalArc, an open-access digital platform developed to support community archives, I will demonstrate how an engaged art history offers a framework for a case study exploring the intersection between reproductive justice and art history. This project will demonstrate a variety of potential approaches to addressing this topic such as a crowdsourced syllabus, an interactive deep map, and conversations with experts that highlight multidisciplinary perspectives on reproductive justice. In doing so, I will model how art history exists beyond the classroom and alongside peer programs as a mode of advocacy, empathy, and engagement. 
